
The Specific Type Ia Supernova Rate: A Tale of Star Formation Histories,
Binary Fractions, and Metallicity

1. 2 panel figure

	left: Specific Ia rate as a function of \tau_sfh, the e-folding timescale
	of the SFH, taken from an order of magnitude calculation assuming an
	exponential SN Ia DTD and an exponential SFH.

		Main point of the story is that the specific Ia rate increases when
		the star formation history is extended. The DTD is extended, but not
		so extended that SNe will occur in significant amounts even after star
		formation stops. With the specific Ia rate known to increase at low
		stellar masses, this is an effect of the right sign, but the question
		is if it can account for the whole effect.

	right: SFHs at a few representative masses taken from the universe machine
	catalog.

		Main point here is to demonstrate more quantitatively that low mass
		field galaxies have more extended SFHs, which is supporting to the
		points made regarding the left-hand panel.

2. 2 panel figure

	left: Analytic curves for specific Ia rate as a function of stellar mass
		given the universe machine SFHs and the z = 0 mass-metallicity relation
		from Zahid et al. (2014) assuming different indeces for the power-law
		Z-dependence.

		Main point is that if the scaling goes as ~M^-0.3 as Gandhi et al.
		(2022) suggests, then this can be explained by a ~Z^-0.5 scaling.
		The stronger ~M^-0.5 scaling found by Brown et al. (2019) requires
		an even stronger scaling of ~Z^-1.

	right: Binary fraction as a function of Z taken from Moe, Kratter &
	Badenes (2019) with various scalings of Z overlapped, and a vertical
	line at log10(Z/Zsun) = -1.08 (the metallicity of the lowest mass
	galaxies probed by our study).

		Main point is that a Z^-0.5 scaling generally lines up with their
		measurements, but is a *tad* higher at the lowest masses and
		metallicities that we consider. This suggests that the majority of the
		specific Ia rate effect can be explained with the increased binary
		fraction at low Z, but that at the lowest masses and metallicities,
		there may be an additional effect if the specific Ia rate continues to
		increase. Some additional Ia's could be explained at low metallicity
		due to the higher mass white dwarfs.

	Taken together, these figures imply that the entire specific Ia rate
	increase at low stellar masses can be understood from some contribution
	from the more extended SFHs of low-mass galaxies and the fact that the
	overall binary fraction should be higher due to their low metallicity.

3. Single panel figure

	Analytic curves similar to the left-hand panel but at a range of
	redshift and assuming either no Z-dependence or a Z^-0.5 scaling.

		If the specific Ia rate can be probed out to z ~ 1, an observational
		test of metallicity versus non-metallicity dependent Ia rates is whether
		or not the mass trend picks up a slope inversion somewhere between z = 0
		and z = 1.

		The observed rates agreeing with the metallicity-dependent scenario
		doesn't necessarily imply that the relation will stay sloped at z ~ 1
		because this prediction is independent of the stellar mass function.
		If the specific Ia rate is observed to flatten off, that would suggest
		that SN Ia rates are not significantly metallicity-dependent and there
		is some other effect causing it to be higher than expected given the
		SFHs of galaxies as a function of stellar mass.

	
	(Will probably not show this panel below because it depends on the stellar
	mass function, which is already a point of systematics in the observations.)

	right: Distribution of SN Ia events as a function of stellar mass at z = 0,
	showing a longer tail to low stellar masses if they do indeed scale as
	Z^-0.5.

		Together with the left-hand panel, just another observational
		diagnostic to test if the Ia rate does indeed depend on metallicity.
